Document NPM Packages (#13)
eik-lib/eik-lib.github.io: docs/server_rest_api.md

## Packages

> A packages is a set of files, javascript, css etc, which is intended to be referenced from a HTML document and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A packages is a set of files (javascript, css etc) that is intended to be referenced from an HTML document and
```

loaded by a browser.

> Packages are versioned and consist of one or more files. A package are immutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packages are versioned and consist of one or more files. A package of a specific version is immutable.
```

**Method:** `GET`

> Retrieves files from a package at the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves files from a package on the service.
```

Status codes:

-   `303` if package is successfully uploaded. `location` is root of module
-   `400` if validation in URL parameters or form fields fails
-   `401` if user is not authorized

> -   `409` if package already exist or version in a major range is not newer than previous version in a major range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `409` if package already exists or version in a major range is not newer than previous version in a major range
```

curl -X GET http://localhost:4001/pkg/fuzz
```

## NPM Packages

> A NPM packages is a local replika of a module found in the [NPM registry](https://www.npmjs.com/) intended to be referenced from a HTML document and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An NPM package is a local replica of a package found in the [NPM registry](https://www.npmjs.com/) intended to be referenced from an HTML document and
```

> loaded by a browser. In many cases, with exceptions, a NPM Package will be a library or utillity [Packages](#packages) depend on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loaded by a browser. In most cases, with some exceptions, an NPM Package will be a library or utillity that other [Packages](#packages) depend upon.
```

> NPM Packages are versioned and consist of one or more files. A NPM package are immutable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NPM Packages are versioned and consist of one or more files. An NPM package of a specific version is immutable.
```

### Endpoint Summary Table

| Name                                              | Verb | Endpoint                      | Form Fields |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ----------------------------- | ----------- |
| [Public NPM Package URL](#public-npm-package-url) | GET  | `/npm/:name/:version/:extras` |             |

> | [Upload a NPM Package](#upload-a-npm-package)     | PUT  | `/npm/:name/:version`         | `package`   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Upload an NPM Package](#upload-a-npm-package)     | PUT  | `/npm/:name/:version`         | `package`   |
```

### Public NPM Package URL

**Method:** `GET`

> Retrieves files from a NPM package at the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves files from an NPM package on the service.
```

```bash
https://:assetServerUrl:port/npm/:name/:version/:extras
```

URL parameters:

-   `:name` is the name of the NPM package. Validator: Comply with [npm package names](https://github.com/npm/validate-npm-package-name).
-   `:version` is the version of the NPM package. Validator: Comply with [semver validation regex](https://semver.org/).

> -   `:extras` whildcard pathname to any file in the NPM package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `:extras` wildcard pathname to any file in the NPM package
```

Status codes:

-   `200` if file is successfully retrieved
-   `404` if file is not found

Example:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:4001/npm/fuzz/8.4.1/main/index.js
```

### Upload a NPM Package

**Method:** `PUT`

> Puts a new NPM package at the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Puts a new NPM package on the service.
```

```bash
https://:assetServerUrl:port/npm/:name/:version
```

URL parameters:

-   `:name` is the name of the NPM package. Validator: Comply with [npm package names](https://github.com/npm/validate-npm-package-name).
-   `:version` is the version of the NPM package. Validator: Comply with [semver validation regex](https://semver.org/).

Form parameters:

-   `package` a `tar` or `tar.gz` containing the files of the NPM package

HTTP headers:

> -   `Authorization` a jwt authorization bearer with the token retrieved from a successful [authentication](#login)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `Authorization` a JWT authorization bearer with the token retrieved from a successful [authentication](#login)
```

Status codes:

-   `303` if NPM package is successfully uploaded. `location` is root of module
-   `400` if validation in URL parameters or form fields fails
-   `401` if user is not authorized
-   `409` if NPM package already exist or version in a major range is not newer than previous version in a major range
-   `415` if file format of the uploaded file is unsupported
-   `502` if NPM package could not be written to the sink

Example:

```bash
curl -X PUT -i -F package=@archive.tgz -H "Authorization: Bearer {:token}" http://localhost:4001/npm/fuzz/8.4.1
```

### Latest NPM Package versions

**Method:** `GET`

> Retrieves an overview of the latest major versions of a NPM package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an overview of the latest major versions of an NPM package.
```

```bash
https://:assetServerUrl:port/npm/:name
```

URL parameters:

-   `:name` is the name of the NPM package. Validator: Comply with [npm package names](https://github.com/npm/validate-npm-package-name).

Status codes:

-   `200` if file is successfully retrieved
-   `404` if file is not found

Example:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:4001/npm/fuzz
```

### NPM Package version overview

**Method:** `GET`

> Retrieves an overview of the files of a NPM package version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an overview of the files of an NPM package version.
```
